---
layout: post
title:  "There is no magic"
---

<div dir="ltr"><div>Penn and Teller are one of the most respected and famous magical 
acts in the world. They have been performing for over 45 years as a duo 
and, personally speaking, are one of my favourite performance artists of
 all time. They are one of the first magicians I saw that encompassed a 
beautiful narrative in the act making not the magic the centre of focus,
 but the story around it. Why am I bringing up Penn and Teller? It is 
because one of the first tricks I ever saw by Penn and Teller was the 
cups and balls, and it changed the way I looked at magic, and pretty 
much everything else.<br></div><div><br></div>

 
Watch it here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i0m8CC7Ovj8
  
 
 <div><br></div><div>As
 mentioned in the act, every magician ever has done the cups and balls. 
But this is the Penn and Teller cups and balls. The main story beat of 
the trick is in them &quot;revealing&quot; the trick by performing the trick with 
clear cups.<br></div><div><br></div><div>There is no magic.</div><div><br></div><div>You
 would think revealing a trick like this kills the magic, the romance in
 the act. Instead, this elevates to a higher plane. There is no magic, 
but there is something better than that.</div><div><br></div><div>Knowing
 that there is no magic is one of the most beautiful revelations one can
 have. And for the longest time to me, computers were magic. I could not
 comprehend how I could access the internet through the <i>air. </i>How I
 could make a billion calculations in a few seconds. How I could print 
anything painting by Van Gogh in 1/1000th the time he would take to 
paint it.</div><div><br></div><div>There is no magic.</div><div><br></div><div>The
 most important thing I learned being a STEM student and working in the 
field is that there is no magic, there is always something better. The 
way a microprocessor coordinates a gazillion electrons in an elaborate 
dance just so that you can see a tweet is more than magic. <br></div><div><br></div><div>I
 am fortunate to be in the field of computer science, the field that has
 by and large taken over the world and is responsible for 90% of the 
magic we say today. This means that I am in a position to view the world
 the same way Penn and Teller view the ball and cup trick. To appreciate
 the artistry and sheer brilliance of where we have come. Every time I 
have discovered how something worked, it&#39;s always been a revelation. <br></div><div><br></div><div>See the real world through a clear cup. There is no magic.</div></div>
