---
layout: post
title:  "There is no magic"
---
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable

<div dir=3D"ltr"><div id=3D"gmail-:25t" class=3D"gmail-Ar gmail-Au gmail-Ao=
" style=3D"display:block"><div id=3D"gmail-:25p" class=3D"gmail-Am gmail-Al=
 editable gmail-LW-avf gmail-tS-tW gmail-tS-tY" aria-label=3D"Message Body"=
 role=3D"textbox" aria-multiline=3D"true" style=3D"direction:ltr;min-height=
:329px" tabindex=3D"1"><div>Penn and Teller are one of the most respected a=
nd famous magical acts in=C2=A0the world. They have been performing for ove=
r 45 years as a duo and, personally speaking, are one of my favourite perfo=
rmance artists of all time. They are one of the first magicians I saw that =
encompassed a=20
beautiful narrative in the act making not the magic the centre of focus,
 but the story around it. Why am I bringing up Penn and Teller? It is becau=
se one of the first tricks I ever saw by Penn and Teller was the=20
cups and balls and it changed the way I looked at magic, and pretty=20
much everything else.<br></div><div><br></div><div>See it here: <a href=3D"=
https://www.youtube.com/embed/i0m8CC7Ovj8" target=3D"_blank">https://www.yo=
utube.com/embed/i0m8CC7Ovj8</a></div><div><br></div><div>As
 mentioned in the act, every magician ever has done the cups and balls.=20
But this is the Penn and Teller cups and balls. The main story beat of the =
trick is in them &quot;revealing&quot; the trick by performing the trick wi=
th clear cups.<br></div><div><br></div><div>There is no magic.</div><div><b=
r></div><div>You
 would think revealing a trick like this kills the magic, the romance in th=
e act. Instead, this elevates to a higher plane. There is no magic,=20
but there is something better than that.</div><div><br></div><div>Knowing
 that there is no magic is one of the most beautiful revelations one can ha=
ve. And for the longest time to me, computers were magic. I could not compr=
ehend how I could access the internet through the air<i>. </i>How I
 could make a billion calculations in a few seconds. How I could print anyt=
hing painting by Van Gogh in 1/1000th the time he would take to paint it.</=
div><div><br></div><div>There is no magic.</div><div><br></div><div>The
 most important thing I learned being a STEM student and working in the fie=
ld is that there is no magic, there is always something better. The way a m=
icroprocessor coordinates a gazillion electrons in an elaborate dance just =
so that you can see a tweet is more than magic. <br></div><div><br></div><d=
iv>I
 am fortunate to be in the field of computer science, the field that has by=
 and large taken over the world and is responsible for 90% of the magic we =
say today. This means that I am in a position to view the world the same wa=
y Penn and Teller view the ball and cup trick. To appreciate the artistry a=
nd sheer brilliance of where we have come. Every time I=20
have discovered how something worked, it&#39;s always been a revelation. <b=
r></div><div><br></div><div>See the real world through a clear cup. There i=
s no magic.</div></div></div></div>
