---
layout: post
title:  "There is no magic"
---
Content-Transfer-Encoding: quoted-printable

<div dir=3D"ltr"><div>Penn and Teller are one of the most respected and fam=
ous magical acts in=C2=A0the world. They have been performing for over 45 y=
ears as a duo and, personally speaking, are one of my favourite performance=
 artists of all time. They are one of the first magicians I saw that encomp=
assed a beautiful narrative in the act making not the magic the centre of f=
ocus, but the story around it. Why am I bringing up Penn and Teller? It is =
because one of the first tricks I ever saw by Penn and Teller was the cups =
and balls, and it changed the way I looked at magic, and pretty much everyt=
hing else.<br></div><div><br></div><div>&lt;iframe width=3D&quot;560&quot; =
height=3D&quot;315&quot; src=3D&quot;<a href=3D"https://www.youtube.com/emb=
ed/i0m8CC7Ovj8">https://www.youtube.com/embed/i0m8CC7Ovj8</a>&quot; title=
=3D&quot;YouTube video player&quot; frameborder=3D&quot;0&quot; allow=3D&qu=
ot;accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; pi=
cture-in-picture&quot; allowfullscreen&gt;&lt;/iframe&gt;</div><div><br></d=
iv><div>As mentioned in the act, every magician ever has done the cups and =
balls. But this is the Penn and Teller cups and balls. The main story beat =
of the trick is in them &quot;revealing&quot; the trick by performing the t=
rick with clear cups.<br></div><div><br></div><div>There is no magic.</div>=
<div><br></div><div>You would think revealing a trick like this kills the m=
agic, the romance in the act. Instead, this elevates to a higher plane. The=
re is no magic, but there is something better than that.</div><div><br></di=
v><div>Knowing that there is no magic is one of the most beautiful revelati=
ons one can have. And for the longest time to me, computers were magic. I c=
ould not comprehend how I could access the internet through the <i>air. </i=
>How I could make a billion calculations in a few seconds. How I could prin=
t anything painting by Van Gogh in 1/1000th the time he would take to paint=
 it.</div><div><br></div><div>There is no magic.</div><div><br></div><div>T=
he most important thing I learned being a STEM student and working in the f=
ield is that there is no magic, there is always something better. The way a=
 microprocessor coordinates a gazillion electrons in an elaborate dance jus=
t so that you can see a tweet is more than magic. <br></div><div><br></div>=
<div>I am fortunate to be in the field of computer science, the field that =
has by and large taken over the world and is responsible for 90% of the mag=
ic we say today. This means that I am in a position to view the world the s=
ame way Penn and Teller view the ball and cup trick. To appreciate the arti=
stry and sheer brilliance of where we have come. Every time I have discover=
ed how something worked, it&#39;s always been a revelation. <br></div><div>=
<br></div><div>See the real world through a clear cup. There is no magic.<b=
r></div><div><br></div><div><br></div><div><br></div></div>
